All right, so here I am, back in the job listings component.
And the next thing that I want to move to a composable function is this logic right here, the logic
that talks to the View store and then also dispatches the asynchronous action to fetch the jobs to make
the API call to our back.
So right now, this is the only component in our app that is making that request to get those jobs.
And you could argue that keeping this code in here is okay for now because no other component needs
to use this.
But again, we don't just get the benefits of reusability when we move this logic to composable functions,
we also get the benefits of breaking up logic into smaller pieces.
So even though it's only has one use case right now, we don't need to repeat this logic and do it in
any other component.
I still think that can be a benefit to moving this logic to its own composable function.
It's also going to enable us to have simpler tests up ahead.
So let's move these two lines to a new composable function.
So I'm going to open up composable.
And right here, what I'm going to do is add a another function down here.
I kind of want to differentiate the functions that I have up above from the one that I'm going to add,
because these functions are all specifically related to the getters in view while this new one is related
to actions.
So let me drag this to the right.
And one simple way to do that is I'm simply going to create a little comment here that says Getters.
And down below, I'm going to create a separate section for actions just so the arrow functions don't
become clumped up with each other, and it becomes too hard to figure out kind of the category that
they belong to.
All right.
So what I'm going to define here is a new arrow function, and I'll call it use fetch jobs dispatch.
I don't know if there's a better name, but that kind of makes sense.
And what am I going to do here?
I'm going to basically copy the logic I have right here.
So let me copy lines 54 to 55.
I'm going to put it right here.
So we already have you story imported right here.
Fetch jobs is a is a function that returns the invocation of the dispatch method being invoked and store.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm just simply going to invoke store dispatch on its own.
Now, in order for this to work, we need the fetch jobs constant in this file.
So if I scroll up here, I'm going to need to import it.
And it's coming from this file constants in the store directory.
So right here, I'm going to do fetch jobs.
And so this composable is not going to return any kind of value.
Technically, in JavaScript terms, it's going to return undefined behind the scenes, but it doesn't
need to return any value because the whole intent of us using this function eventually is to pass it
in here to on mounted and have on mounted, invoke it, trigger the action to fetch the API jobs.
We don't actually need the jobs in our actual response or anything like that because remember, it's
going to live in the future store once the API responds completes and then we're going to be able to
access those jobs using, for example, our getters, right?
So this is just the function.
It's going to kick everything off, right?
So let's create immediately a test for this new composable.
So right here, I'm going to open up my composable test that she has found.
Drag it over here to the right and let's import a new function which is called Use Fetch Jobs Dispatch.
And on the bottom here, let's describe a new section for it.
It's right here.
Describe.
Use.
Fetch jobs.
Dispatch.
All right, so our new function is using the use store function.
So that's how we're going to need to mark out.
So right here, let's make sure we have an it call.
It sends call to fetch jobs from API.
Seems like a good description in here.
We can set up our mark.
So I want to take you store which is already imported above and mocked out above as well so I can mock
return value and I know that I'm going to need to have dispatch on the object that I return, because
that's what I'm invoking right here on the store right here.
So dispatch is something I need to keep track of, because what I really want to worry about in this
action is that I call the dispatch method with the right argument of fetch jobs.
So what I'm going to do here is define dispatch as a constant in line, as a just mock function that's
going to allow me to track how many times it's been invoked.
And so down below, I'm going to simply invoke my new composable function to use fetch job's dispatch.
And after that function is done running, I'm going to expect that dispatch.
Was invoked and invoked with the right argument.
So for that, remember, there is a matter to have been called with.
It's right here.
And what string do I expect it to get?
Fetch jobs.
So this is going to verify two things.
Number one, that this mock function that is returned by the used store object or in the use or object,
that that function has been invoked.
We're verifying that.
And number two, we're verifying that it's been invoked with the right arguments.
So we're basically testing right here.
Is this logic in line 30?
This logic in line 29 is kind of necessary.
So that's why we need to prepare for it.
But it doesn't actually have any of our own special business logic to our app.
The core heart of this function right here is line number three.
All right, so if I scroll up, it looks like actually we are getting a passing test.
We in composable is that test that yes, the reason we still have failing test weights is because they're
coming from the job listings component.
That's totally fine.
We'll fix those in a lesson or two.
This test is passing.
So with that we are good to add this composable to our job listings component.
So let's import our new composable.
So.
Right, let's see if we have a thing here.
Yes.
So we already have an import from the store composable file on the right.
So here I can add another one.
Use fetch jobs dispatch and then down below.
What does that allow me to do?
Do I need this store anymore?
No.
The only reason this store exists is to be used in fetch jobs below.
The only reason we have such jobs is to have an uninvolved function that we pass to the on mounted function
from view.
Remember, this is the function that's going to run when the component mounts.
But now we don't want the component to run fetch jobs.
We want the component to run our new use, fetch jobs, dispatch function.
So right here we have an imported.
I'm going to provide it as an argument.
Remember, do not invoke it.
So no parentheses.
We're simply providing the function or in other words, the recipe or procedure that we want view to
run for us when it mounts.
So when view mounts job listings, it's going to run, use, fetch, jobs, dispatch.
That function will run right here.
That function will talk to the U.S. store and dispatch and action which will take care of the API request.
All right.
So with that, we can remove this form or two lines up here.
We can remove fetch jobs.
We no longer need that constant because we now have that constant right here in the file where it matters.
Remove this.
And because we're no longer using our store anywhere as well, we can simply remove it in this file
import as well.
Our store is obviously being used but is being used across all of these other composable functions that
the jobless component itself is relying on.
All right.
So obviously, you can see the filter or the setup method has gotten significantly easier.
It's kind of delegated responsibilities in different sections, but we still have a whole bunch of failing
tests.
So let's go ahead and fix those in the very next lesson.